 It's AumSum Time! What if Pizza Disappeared? Oh no! I just opened an AumSum Pizza Store! Huh? AumSum! To buy this hoodie, visit AumSum.com Firstly, if Pizza Disappeared, some people might actually start losing weight. Secondly, many people love to eat pizza. If Pizza Disappeared, many people may actually start eating more at home. Thirdly, Pizza said to have been invented in Italy. If Pizza Disappeared, entire country may go on strike. Fourthly, if Pizza Disappeared, pizza delivery guys will have a lot of free time on their hands. Fifthly, cheese and pizza go hand in hand. If Pizza Disappeared, sale of cheese may come down. Lastly, if Pizza Disappeared, fast food joints world over may start closing up. Huh? Why are Pizza boxes square? Because square is what's in right now. Hey you! Come over here! Even though Pizza's around, square boxes are preferred. Why? This is because a square box is made using just a single cardboard sheet. While a round box requires several sheets. That need to be joined together using special machinery. So, it is cheaper and simpler to make square boxes. Yes! A square boxes can be easily assembled on- They are transported in the form of flat cardboard sheets. Easily stacked on- However, round boxes need to be first assembled. This makes it difficult to transport and store these huge piles of boxes on-site. Further, there are empty spaces around the pizza in the square box, making it easy to lift the pizza. The empty spaces can even be used to place chili flakes or eggno. Why do we love junk food? Because it looks cool, bro. Nah. We love junk food because manufacturers design it to activate our brains reward system. They create the perfect combination of salt, sugar, spices, etc. which excite our taste buds. Thus, activating our brains reward system, making us feel good. Now, after this, when we eat regular food, as it doesn't activate the reward system, it feels less appealing. Besides this, if we compare these foods, the quantity of healthy food looks more. Right? But surprisingly, they both contain the same number of calories. What? Yes. Now, since healthy food also contains fiber and water, they add up to the volume of thus filling our stomach. But, as the junk food doesn't have enough water and fiber, it doesn't fill us. So, we keep beating and thus end up consuming more calories, leading to obesity, diabetes, etc. Hmm. Topic...Defusion. Why can we smell the hot food from a distance? Huh? Hmm. Hey, looks like you have lost your way. No, I know the way. Fine. Don't listen. Hmm. Huh? Huh? Huh? Huh? See? I told you. Hmm. Hmm. Now, listen. Huh? Hmm. There is a restaurant next to your house where hot sizzling food is available. Right? Hmm. Oh yeah. Yummy! Follow it, smell, and you will reach home. Oh. Huh. Huh. Huh. Huh. Huh. Huh. Yeah, be. I've reached home. Do you know how the smell of that food reached you? When food gets cooked, it releases some aromatic gases into the air. The molecules of these gases spread and mix with air molecules. When this air reaches our nose, we get the smell of food. Hmm. This process of spreading and mixing of a substance with another substance is called diffusion. But then, why couldn't I smell the food inside my house from a distance? This is because that food had become cold. Hmm. On heating food, the molecules of its aromatic gases gain kinetic energy and start vibrating faster. Hmm. They spread and mix easily into air, leading to an increased rate of diffusion. Hmm. As the food gets cold, the temperature of the aromatic gases decreases. The kinetic energy of molecules decreases and they do not vibrate as much anymore. Hmm. Thus, the rate of diffusion decreases and we cannot smell the food from a distance. Hmm. Why do we get food cravings? Who says so? I'm always on a strict diet. Oh, I'm so. Let me explain. Firstly, craving for chocolates is an indication of low levels of magnesium in our body. Hmm. Secondly, we crave for cheese because it contains an amino acid called triptophan, which boosts production of serotonin in our body. Serotonin is also called a happy chemical as it contributes to feelings of well-being and happiness. Thirdly, our craving for sugar and sweets is primarily because of low blood sugar. Our body can efficiently produce energy using sugar or carbohydrate. Hmm. Now if we reduce intake of sugar or when we are low on energy, then our body craves for sugar or sweets. Hmm. Fourthly, we crave for salt. As in sodium, as our body tries to correct the imbalance of sodium caused either due to dehydration or electrolyte imbalance. Hmm. Lastly, we crave for teor coffee mainly because of addiction to caffeine. Hmm. Hmm. Is spicy food bad for you? Obviously, because whenever I eat spicy food, my mouth seems to be on fire. This is because spicy food generally contains chili peppers. Chili peppers have a chemical called capsaicin. When capsaicin comes in contact with our tongue, it activates the heat sense in receptors instead of our taste buds. As a result, our brain thinks that our mouth is on fire. So shall I call the fire brigade? Oh. Just listen. Capsaicin present in spicy food is not necessarily bad for everybody. Only those people who have a low tolerance level or don't have a habit of eating spicy food can experience some problems like burning mouth. Your rotation of the stomach lining, heartburn, etc. Hmm. Topic human nose. Heh. Why does spicy food make your nose run? Because it is not that strong to make me run. Nah. Huh? Our nose consists of tiny hair and a sticky substance called mucus. Can I use this mucus to stick my broken vase? Oh, gross. Huh? Please don't do that and listen. During breathing, the hair and mucus trap harmful substances, thus prohibiting them from entering deep inside the body. Ha, ha, ha. Now, spicy food items like chili, mustard, horseradish, and wasabi contained chemicals called capsaicin, and olio-isothiocyanate. Heh. When we eat such food items, the capsaicin and olio-isothiocyanate travel through the fairings and reach our nose. Here, the chemicals activate the heat sensing receptors, thus causing inflammation in our nose and irritation of the mucus. Hence, as a defense mechanism, more mucus is produced in our nose to get rid of these chemicals, thus making our nose run. Why does salt make food taste better? Wait, I'll explain. Salt, which is basically sodium chloride, makes almost everything taste better. Whether it is french fries, certain fruits, curries, or even cookies, we like at least a little salt in all these foods. According to researchers, we've evolved to like salt maybe because our bodies need salt for survival. What? Salt for survival? Indeed. Sodium present in salt maintains our blood pressure, transmits nerve impulses, etc. Whereas chloride is used to produce hydrochloric acid in our stomach. Hence, to obtain salt, we have gradually developed a taste for it. Thus, salt in food makes it appealing and tasty. In addition to this, it is found that salt suppresses bitterness better than sugar. Researchers aren't sure how. Some researchers suggest that salt neutralizes the bitter tongue receptors. While some suggest that on adding salt, the brain interprets the taste as less bitter. Hmm. Some things missing. Sugar? Salt? No! It's saliva. To taste food, the taste buds on our tongue need a liquid medium like saliva to bind food molecules to its receptors. Saliva also contains an enzyme called amylase, which breaks carbohydrates into simple sugars. So, without saliva, foods having carbohydrates may taste different. Also, saliva contains natural disinfectants, which help wipe away harmful pathogens. Are processed foods safe to eat? Yeah, because they are so yummy! No. Processed food means the food item has been altered in some way or the other. It may involve washing, keeling, cutting the food item or pasturizing, freezing, adding oil, salt, or sugar to increase the product's shelf life. Processed foods include tinned vegetables, yogurt, cheese, etc. Ultra-processed foods are ready to eat or ready to heat products manufactured industrially using multiple ingredients and additives. Some examples include instant noodles, breakfast cereals, etc. Now, many of these ultra-processed foods are believed to have negative healthy facts. Why? Firstly, ultra-processed foods are unhealthy for our digestive system as they are low in fiber. Fiber promotes bowel movements and it is an important food source for beneficial bacteria and our large intestine. Secondly, many of these foods are high in trans fat, which increases the level of bad cholesterol. Thirdly, high amounts of salt, sugar, and chemical additives in these foods may increase the risk of diabetes, obesity, etc. Is overcooked food good for us? Obviously, burnt toast is my favorite. Oh, I'm some. Overcooking or charring the food from outside is entrenched because it adds a smoky flavor and enhances the taste. However, experts believe that overcooking can have negative healthy facts. Firstly, the longer you cook, the more nutrient-lost occurs. Secondly, overcooked food is hard to digest and metabolize. Thirdly, when we cook starchy food at high temperatures for longer periods, the naturally occurring sugar and amino acids react to form harmful carcinogens like acrylamides. Whereas, overcooking of meat causes sugar, amino acids, and a substance called creatine to react, producing carcinogens called heterocyclic amines. Lastly, while grilling, fat from the meat can drip onto the burning coal, leading to the production of carcinogens called polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons. Hence, it is recommended to cook food just until it gets a golden yellow color and not until it turns brown or black. Is expired food safe to eat? No problem, though. I'm a strong-ass hole. Oh, I'm some. Usually, we see three types of dates on food products. Cell by, best by, and used by. Used by is what we call the expiry date. Consuming food past this date may prove to be harmful. Firstly, the nutritional value of the food will reduce. Secondly, as bacteria don't usually grow at low temperatures, many foods are frozen. But if foods are kept at room temperature, bacteria will develop in them. Now, if consumed, they can cause vomiting, diarrhea, food poisoning, etc. Thirdly, it is believed that when canned food expires, the acids present in food react with the metal can and produce hydrogen gas. Creating bulges in the can and thus making the food unsafe to eat. So expiry date is definitely a good indicator. But apart from that, we should also rely on our senses of smell and sight to check the quality of the food. Is fermented food good for us? No! French fries are the best for me. All right, now listen. Fermentation is a process in which natural bacteria and yeast break down the sugar and starch present in the food, producing electric acid and other compounds. For decades, fermenting was a technique to preserve food. However, nowadays fermented food is getting a lot of attention because of the benefits it provides. Firstly, as the fermented food is pre-digested or broken down by bacteria, these foods are easier for us to digest. Secondly, fermentation increases the nutritional value by producing beneficial enzymes and vitamins. Thirdly, as microorganisms break down lactose present in the food, lactose intolerant people can eat yogurt and other fermented milk products. Lastly, fermented foods contain probiotics which are good or friendly bacteria. They improve our gut health, thus leading to a healthy immune system.